Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you an Action, Crime, Drama
film from 2005, titled Lord of war.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
It's the early 1980’s.
This is Yuri Orlov, the eldest son of a family
of Ukrainian refugees.
It is his fake name he used to have to escape
the soviet union in the 70’s.
His brother Vitaly.
They are fake jews, on the other hand their
father was more jewish than jews.
Vitaly walks into a restaurant at Brighton
Beach called Palace as two would-be assasins
holding Kalashnikov rifles walk right behind
him, they shoot up the place, then get killed
themselves by a russian mobster, right in
front of Yuri.
This is when everything started for Yuri.
He believes that the constant need for weapons
is similar to human need for food and drink,
thus he can make a fortune.
He got his first submachine gun supplier.
It was his first time selling a gun, he had
no clue what he was doing and compared it
to losing virginity, you don't know what to
expect and it happens fast.
He is very good at smuggling contraband and
persuading people.
He chained his first bullet to commemorate
his first sale.
Vitaly is a drunk, even so, Yuri needs a partner
so he chose his brother.
Vitaly is hesitant, but without much conviction
needed he agrees.
A while later they are at an arms sale convention,
Yuri is here to find Simeon Weisz, a gun dealer
that takes war sides, but Yuri's business
proposal to just supply guns to both parties
is not worthwhile.
Simeon calls Yuri an amateur, that's how their
rivalry began.
So their only option for now is under the
counter gun sale.
A while later two brothers get their first
big break during the Lebanon war.
Yuri made weapon piles that were left after
the United Nations withdrew, since it costs
more to bring guns back than to buy new.
He’s selling the guns by kilo, which is
possible by bribing Lieutenant Curnel.
Military wages were no good then, so that
wasn't a problem.
He is selling guns to both Israeli and Lebanese
troops despite witnessing the same weapons
being used to commit war crimes and other
atrocities.
As they are walking and talking about miniscule
profits, they are terrified by shots that
are directed at Lebanon civilians, almost
harming them.
They sold israeli made uzis to muslims, communist
made bullets to fascists.
Back at home, we see that Yuri owns a private
container for his multiple lives, depending
on the region of the world he’s visiting.
As they are on the ship - Kristol, they are
tipped off to authorities, as told by his
informant, Yuri commands his crew to quickly
change the name of the ship to Kono and the
country flag they come from to Denmark.
Unfortunately they don’t have Denmark flag
but with Vitaly’s quick thinking they put
up a French flag sideways, that became Dutch
flag, since the ship is registered in netherlands,
there should be no issues.
Jack Valentine, an idealistic interpol agent,
represents a unique threat to Yuri because
he is after glory, not money, and thus cannot
be bought off.
To lead agents off his case, Yuris strategy
this time was to fill his containers with
one week old potatoes, which luckily discontinues
search attempts.
While Yuri is supplying the Colombian drug
lord with guns, he doesn't get paid with money,
but instead cocaine.
He doesn't want to accept it.
That escalates into an argument that ends
with him being shot.
While driving away, they decide to celebrate
and numb the pain from the gun wound with
the cocaine.
That is the wrong thing to do, because his
brother is a known addict.
As presumed, his brother disappeared with
one kilo of cocaine.
So Yuri traveled 2000 miles to find his brother
- Vitaly in a boarding house, high and disoriented,
mapping the border of Ukraine with cocaine.
Yuri sweeps it off, which makes Vitaly lash
out at him.
Yuri drags his brother to America and sends
him to a rehabilitation facility, after giving
him his last sniff, they say goodbye and Yuri
continues his business alone.
From the very childhood Ava Fontaine, the
model, was someone Yuri was chasing as his
dream woman.
So that was his next move, he reserved the
whole hotel and booked her for a fake fotoshoot,
so that they would be the only ones there.
After getting to know each other, Ava says
that there are no flights back to Miami until
Thursday, of course Yuri knows this so he
offers Ava a flight on his private jet.
He uses most of his wealth just to deceive
her and prove to her he is anything but poor.
He even painted a plane with his family name
just so it seems that he owns the plane.
A few charming lines later, Ava feels like
fate brought them together, subsequently they
get married and have a son.
Skip another few years, it's 1991.
the cold war of the soviet union is over,
Yuri is overjoyed since they've been having
financial issues for some time.
Now he can get back into the business, he
is more overjoyed from the end of cold war,
than learning that his son just walked for
the first time, which in fact upsets Ava.
Vitaly is seen walking drunk into Yuri's apartment,
upsetting the whole family, so he is sent
back into rehab.
Following recent news Yuri goes to his uncle
in Ukraine.
He is talking with his uncle - general Dimitry
who oversees weapon distribution, he is hesitant
to sell guns to Yuri, because how can he report
missing guns to higher ups?
Yuri says that no one cares about the guns
they have anymore and he has no one to report
to, since Moscow now is a foreign country
and no one has taken over in Ukraine, that
convinces the general.
Huge weapon stockpiles are seen, 40 thousand
kalashnikovs are in stock, but Yuri suggests
to change that number to 10 thousand and no
one would even know it, that's how Yuri got
his hands on the biggest weapon stockpile
in his life, even tanks and helicopters.
And that's where his long time rival – Simeon,
steps in.
They are having dinner and Yuri learns that
Simeon does not operate well in chaotic conditions
– which is where Yuri himself thrives.
When Simeon hints at working together, Yuri
calls him an amateur and that they should
work separately, repaying for declining him
all those years ago.
When Yuri is loading the ships with weapons,
agent Valentine comes back in the picture,
Dimitry says that Yuri is too greedy, loading
military helicopters on ships for transport
is a major violation.
So Yuri does what he does best, changes the
military helicopter to look like a rescue
helicopter.
As Valentine comes to Yuri he is not surprised
to see him, always at the wrong place, at
the right time.
With all the guns pointed at Yuri, he calmly
explains to Valentine that all the weapons
and vehicles comply with europe trade standards,
and he cannot do anything about it, except
be suspicious, and suspicion is not constituted
as a crime.
After having an exclusive car gifted to him
by Yuri, General Dimitry is calling himself
the luckiest man alive.
Unfortunately when he steps into the car,
it blows up, which devastates Yuri.
Despite General's death, the deal still goes
through, and is marked as the biggest illegal
arms trade of the 20th century.
Yuri expands his business to Africa, the largest
arms consumers there are.
There he meets Andre Baptist, american educated,
self declared president of Monrovia, a ruthless
dictator who's engaged in a brutal war in
Liberia.
Andre junior, Baptists son, with a golden
ak47 demands that Yuri comes and meets his
father.
After a decline from Yuri, he is told that
it’s not an option.
At Baptist stronghold, Yuri is talking about
guns, when Baptist kills one of his soldiers
right before his eyes for disrespecting him.
Yuri yells at Baptist, guns get pointed at
Yuri, but before things escalate, he says
that Baptist has to buy the gun, as if pointing
out that he is furious not because of him
killing his soldier, but using a gun he hasn't
paid for yet, to do so.
This humors Baptist, and he accepts Yuri as
his arms dealer.
Andre junior drives Yuri outside town to a
supposedly 2 star hotel, and has a present
from his father.
The present is two beautiful women.
Yuri tries to call it off, since 1 in 4 people
in Monrovia have AIDS.
They are trying their best to seduce Yuri,
but he still asks them to leave.
Baptist shows how fond he is of his army of
kids, his country isn't rich, so he can't
pay him in money, but he is ready to pay him
in timber or blood diamonds.
Yuri takes the diamonds.
Yuri knows that Baptist wants to go offensive,
so he suggests delaying his attack for a week,
offering him his armored personnel carriers
he got from Ukraine, as that would reduce
his casualties exponentially.
It is the late 90’s and Yuri's wealth has
caught up and even surpassed his lies to Ava.
Ava started painting and an anonymous patron
bought a painting of hers.
She was ecstatic about it, but didn't know
that the anonymous patron was Yuri.
Vitaly is seen doing better, but looks jealous
of Yuri.
Vitaly asks if Ava knows about Yuri's line
of work, which he denies.
Ava shouldn't know anything about his multiple
lives, at the same time he was wondering how
much Ava really knew and how much she chose
to ignore.
Not everything is always smooth sailing for
Yuri, there are setbacks, like sending guns
to the country that started peace talks and
entered a truce, it's not called gun running
for nothing, you have to be fast on your feet.
New times come, and a new breed of cop is
needed.
Yuri is being investigated by the FBI, so
he is constantly on the lookout.
To lose the helicopter that is giving chase,
he gets out of his limousine and gets into
a taxi, to drive to his container.
As he stores another one of his wife's paintings,
he gets a call from her, telling him there
are men going through their garbage and asking
him if there is something she should be worried
about.
Yuri dismisses her, telling that everything
is fine and he loves her.
Valentine has put together a paper containing
information about Yuri's next move.
At this point Yuri is the best death merchant
alive.
He doesn't own a plane, he owns a whole fleet.
Most trips Yuri has phony paperwork, but he
isn't overly concerned, there are hardly any
radars over Africa, and even fewer people
to watch them.
Unfortunately during one flight to Africa
in 2001, Yuris plane is intercepted by Valentine
and, after an array of bullets he is forced
to land.
Yuri escapes arrest by landing in a remote
area and giving away all of his cargo to locals,
offering it as free samples, leaving no evidence
to charge him for.
As one of the locals tries to kill Yuri, noting
that people disappear there all the time,
he is dissuaded by Valentine, saying he is
going to get what's coming to him.
Valentine decides to hold Yuri detained for
24 hours, it’s in his right, so that Yuri
has less time to do his crimes.
Valentine didn't guard Yuri, he knew he had
nowhere to go, or he hoped that locals would
tear him apart, but they were too busy with
the plane.
Upon returning to his hotel, Yuri is shocked
to see Baptist, his son and Simeon, who is
tied to a chair.
Baptist offers Yuri to kill Simeon, he is
his competitor and also killed his uncle.
Yuri doesn't want to kill him, but also refuses
to let him go, so as a bonding experience
Baptist places a gun in Yuri's hand, still
giving him a chance to say stop.
Yuri is silent and Simeon is shot dead.
That night Yuri tried cocaine mixed with gunpowder,
which is called brown brown, for the first
time.
It is said that it makes you do anything.
Barely conscious, he sees a woman on him and
asks if she is infected, without response
she leaves.
Experiencing hallucinations of Simeon and
basically wanting to die, as one of guards
tries to shoot at Yuri, the gun misfires,
twice.
Even hyenas he sees in the desert walk away
from him, he starts to feel cursed, curse
of invincibility.
Valentine tells Ava her husband is an arms
dealer, prompting her to confront him, even
set him up, he tries to persuade her telling
that Yuri is exactly the kind of a man who
is responsible for the death of her parents,
selling illegal firearms.
Upon returning home, Ava tells Yuri she can’t
wear the clothes, can't wear the jewelry,
can’t drive the car or live in this house,
everything has blood on it.
Yuri admits to selling guns, Ava pleads him
to stop, that they have enough.
For Yuri it's not about the money, he is just
good at it, so Ava gives him an ultimatum,
her or his arms trade.
To please his wife, Yuri tries to legitimize
his business with timber sales, even Valentine
gets confused by tapping on his calls.
Yuri soon becomes frustrated with the difficulties
and lower earnings of honest work, but still,
he made a promise to Ava.
Baptist comes to America for peace talks with
the United Nations, before they begin he gives
Yuri a visit, hoping to strike another deal.
Yuri refuses at first, but after being offered
the largest payday of his career, a stash
of diamonds, Yuri goes back to crime one last
time.
On the day of his departure, he explains the
situation to his wife, and asks if she trusts
him, she lies without flinching and Yuri suspects
it.
Ava tails Yuri, to expose his lies, Yuri leads
her right to his container containing his
multiple lives.
As she unlocks it, she is devastated by its
content.
Before departing to Liberia, Yuri visits his
brother Vitaly asking him for assistance with
a major deal.
Reluctantly, Vitaly agrees.
After they land, Baptist says that the delivery
will be done only after they deliver the guns
to his neighbours to the west - Sierra Leone,
to the freedom fighters.
At the business table, Vitaly is checking
the camp, after seeing one woman being gutted
for running after her son, Vitaly pleads with
Yuri to abandon the deal, but Yuri refuses
knowing that Baptist’s men will kill them
for refusing to hand over the guns.Vitaly
is disgusted by his brother, unable to stomach
the guilt, Vitaly steals a pair of grenades
and uses them to destroy a truck full of weapons,
accidently killing Andre junior.
He is gunned down, and while Yuri is spared
due to his relationship with Baptist, he only
receives half of the diamonds.
Evil prevails when good men fail to act, what
they ought to say is evil prevails.
Yuri pays 20 dollars to a Monrovian doctor
to remove bullets from his brother's corpse
and write a bogus death certificate.
He should've paid more, the first bullet that
lands Yuri in jail was found under his dead
brother's rib.
As he is trying to get a hold of Ava, she
is leaving the house for good, when he tries
to reconcile with his parents, his mother
picks the phone and says that both of his
sons died that day.
While in custody and talking with Valentine,
he reveals it was his wife who led them to
the prize, it's not her fault, she was just
easier to follow than Yuri is.
Yuri tells Valentine to enjoy it, tell him
everything he wants to tell him, because he
doesn't have long.
Valentine tells him that he doesn’t appreciate
the seriousness of the situation, that he
will spend the next 10 years of his life just
going from jail cell to courtroom before starting
to serve his sentence.
Yuri is unfazed saying “My family has disowned
me, my wife and son have left me, my brother
is dead”.
He fully appreciates the seriousness of the
situation.
He then proceeds to explain him what exactly
will happen, that a man will come who outranks
Valentine, he will compliment him on his job
well done, and then he will tell Valentine
that he is to be released, because that while
he may be a criminal, the United States government
is willing to turn a blind eye to his crimes,
since most of his weapons end up in the hands
of their allies, who they cannot be seen publicly
supplying with arms.
Valentines then hears a knock at the door
and realizes that Yuri is right, but before
walking away, he says “I would tell you
to go to hell, but I think you’re already
there.”
Yuri just gets back to what he does best,
being an arms dealer.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.